If you wanted to start a business, Japan after World War 2 was probably the worst place for that. However, inside a bomb-damaged office building in the middle of Tokyo, two engineers began their dream company against all odds. And fast forward to today, Sony is everywhere.


From consumer electronics, to music, movies, video games, and even an entire line of robot dogs, Sony does it all. But with their hands in so many industries, they're faced with the brutal reality about business. Enemies are everywhere.


Throughout their history, Sony has faced many battles, including being stabbed in the back by Nintendo, and potentially infiltrated by the North Korean government. So in this video, we're unraveling the entire history of Sony. Their rise from a struggling radio repair service to a hundred billion dollar empire.


Akio Morita was born in Japan in 1921, and from a very early age, he was groomed to take over the family business. For the past 14 generations, his family had run a brewery that had passed down from father to son. Even from just 10 years old, Akio was attending all the company's board meetings.


However, he seemed more interested in tinkering with radios and phonographs than running the family business, and he begged his father to let him study physics and engineering instead of economics. Surprisingly, his father agreed, and this decision potentially saved his life. After Japan bombed Pill Harbor, the army drafted millions of military aged men, but since Akio studied physics, he could design weapons for the army instead of fighting on the front lines.


So in 1944, Akio got an engineering job in the Navy, and that's where he met his future business partner, Masaru Ibuuka. Akio and Masaru quickly bonded over their shared passion for technology. They hated using it for war though, and they both dreamed of building technology that made people's everyday lives better.


Nevertheless, the world was at war. And as engineers, Akio and Masaru knew that Japan's military technology was years behind the US, so it was only a matter of time until they were on the losing side of the war. In August of 1945, their prediction came true.


The US dropped atomic bombs, and Japan agreed to a complete surrender. Akio and Masaru's jobs at the Navy suddenly disappeared, and for now, they went their separate ways. Akio began teaching at a university, whilst Masaru decided to start his own small company.


At this point though, Japan was one of the worst places in the world to be starting a business. Most major cities had been firebombed to ruins. Almost half of the people had nowhere to live, and the homeless froze to death on winter nights.


The police were also nowhere to be found, and there were no legitimate jobs. This meant many young women resorted to sleeping with American GIs in exchange for food, whilst many young men joined the Yakuza, essentially the Japanese Mafia. Given this bleak situation in Japan, it's kind of crazy Masaru had so much optimism about starting his business.


But he wanted to build a company where engineers could work to their heart's content, and he was determined to make it happen no matter what. And so Masaru began working on his first product, an electric rice cooker. However, the rice cooker either drastically undercooked the rice, or burnt it to a crisp.


And so the product failed horribly. Masaru then tried making an electric heating blanket, which was unsafe and also failed. But Masaru just kept going, believing every failure put him one step closer to succeeding, and eventually he found what the market needed.


Back during the war, the Japanese government had gone round opening up radios and cutting the wires so they couldn't receive long-distance signals with US propaganda. Now that the war was over though, all these radios needed fixing, and Masaru began offering a radio repair service. This let people listen to foreign news and music, and as a result, Masaru's business was featured in one of Japan's largest magazines.


Masaru's old friend, Akio, happened to read the magazine article, and once he learned about Masaru's engineering business, he reached out to see if he could help. Akio and Masaru soon decided they wanted to set up a company together where they'd work on developing new products. But first, Akio had to ask for his father's blessing.


Remember that for almost 300 years, it had been his family's tradition to go into the brewery business. Surprisingly though, his father allowed Akio to break tradition and follow his passion, and he even gave Akio and Masaru 190,000 yen to help them get their new business started. So in 1946, Akio and Masaru formally incorporated the Tokyo Telecommunications Engineering Corporation, the company that would eventually become Sony.


With that name, some money, and a growing team of engineers, all they needed now was something to sell. It took a few years of trial and error, but in 1950, Akio and Masaru started making a new kind of tape recorder for the government, which wasn't a big success, but it did lay the foundation for a portable version, which was the company's first hit product. But then, just as the tape recorder business was getting exciting, a new technological innovation changed everything.


In 1952, Akio and Masaru learned that the company that invented the transistor was offering other companies the chance to license the technology in exchange for a royalty. The transistor was completely revolutionising electronics, and so Akio travelled to the US and negotiated ruthlessly until he secured the licensing deal for Japan, meaning they could use transistors in their products. However, during this trip, Akio was stunned when he saw the towering skyscrapers in the US, and on his way back to Japan, he also stopped by Germany, which was already making an incredible economic comeback after the war.


It was clear Japan was lagging behind other countries. When he finally returned home, Akio's waiter placed a little paper umbrella on his dessert and told him it had been made in Japan. The waiter was just hoping to amuse him, but instead, Akio felt a deep sense of shame about his country.


From this moment on, he had a new sense of purpose. Akio was determined to make the words made in Japan actually stand for something. But it wasn't going to be easy.


Now that they had the license to make transistors, Akio and Masaru had the chance to turn their company into a global brand, so they needed a name that could be used all around the world. Flipping through a dictionary, they stumbled upon Sonus, the Latin word for sound. They combined this with Sony, which was the slang word for a young man, and together, this gave them the name Sony.


